# May 17, 2008 Developer Meeting

On 5/17/2009 we had a developer meeting. These minutes are meant to
supplement the slides that were presented, so make sure you check them
out:
**[Slides](http://docs.google.com/Present?docid=dd557nj5_28fvx8jkgx&skipauth=true)**

# Status

  - 1.7 is almost out the door - yay\!

# New Workflow

  - We all seem to be in agreement that only finished 100% features can
    go into trunk.
  - Unit testing\!
  - When we're ready to do a feature freeze, we cut the release branch
    for that release, and trunk goes onward.
  - Code reviews?\!?\!

# New Library

  - Sweet

# LADSPA

  - Someone needs to take on this project, or else it'll never get done.
  - Need to make effects apply to individual channels too. Where should
    we do this? EngineBuffer? EngineMaster?

# MIDI 3.0

  - MIDI code is still a disaster -- needs a major refactor. 

# Shoutcast

  - mostly finished\!
  - need feedback loop

# BPM Detection

  - hard\! 
  - needs to be 100% right
  - BPMDJ -- lets use that

# Sound Sources: FFMPEG and M4a

  - FFMPEG 
  - not very friendly
  - M4a 
  - it works
  - lets finish it

# Looping

# Other Fun Projects

# Rewrite\!?\!?

  - We aren't going to be able to do this in the near future. It'll take
    really long. 
  - Incremental rewrites are still good.
  - Should work towards Mixxx working headless

# Mixxx 1.8 Feature Targets

  - Major Focus
  - Library Rewrite
  - Looping
  - Minor Focus
  - Multi MIDI Device or MIDI Refactor
  - LADSPA
  - M4A Support
  - Shoutcast
  - BPMDJ Adaptation
  - Side Projects
  - Build Server\!
  - Test Evangelism
  - SConscript Refactor
