# 6/27/2010 Developer Meeting

We held a meeting to discuss the upcoming 1.8.0 release, the releases
that will follow in the 1.8.x series, and the potential plans for the
1.9 and 2.0 series. Additionally, we discussed growing the team, the
project financials, and future release management.

Present: Tobias, Bill, Albert, RJ, Sean, Garth, Adam

  - Project Planning
  - Fewer colossal releases\!
  - Art and Community Planning Changes
  - Agree that we will try to only add features in major releases and
    bug fixes in point releases.
  - Upcoming Releases
  - Philosophy: optimize our effort, limited manpower, tons of features
    to work on
  - Need to pick the features that will increase the user experience for
    the largest number of DJs
  - Feature mobility: easily target features to new releases.
  - Try to make releases as fast and single-featured as possible.
  - Mistakes of 1.8.0
  - Missed the release deadline for Ubuntu 10.10
  - Didn't address the PortAudio mmap bug fast enough.

<!-- end list -->

``` 
    * Let it linger as long as possible.
    * Was a relatively easy fix.
* OpenGL waveform corruption and performance
* No forethought about art and community planning.
    * Jus is singlehandedly running this department! 
* 
```
