A backpack (also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack, or bergen)
is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on one's back and secured
with two straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one shoulder
strap.

Backpacks are commonly used by hikers and students, and are often
preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of
equipment, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for
long periods of time in the hands.

Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg (22 lbs), usually
offload the largest part (up to about 90%) of their weight onto padded
hip belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are
stronger than the shoulders, and also increases agility and balance,
since the load rides nearer the wearer's own center of mass.

In ancient times, the backpack was used as a means to carry the hunter's
larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for
other materials. In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would
dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around,
each one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which
they placed on to their backs. The bag itself would be made up of animal
hide and skin and sewn together by animal intestines, which would be
woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.

The word backpack was coined in the United States in the 1910s. Moneybag
and packsack were used before; they now occur mainly as regionalisms.
The word rucksack is a German loanword mainly used in the UK and in
western military forces: in German 'der Rücken' means 'the back' (the
part of the body), and Sack for bag. The name Rucksack is cognate with
Danish Rygsæk, Norwegian Ryggsekk, Dutch Rugzak, Afrikaans Rugsak,
Swedish Ryggsäck and Rumanian Rucsac, which is actually two different
words with the same meaning (more or less) and identical singular
(respectively, the two plurals are rucsaci and rucsacuri. Alternative
names include Haversack (the term haversack more properly describes a
small cloth bag on a strap worn over one shoulder, and used to carry one
or more 'havers' or havercakes or oatcakes.). In Rumanian there are
alternatives also (as in sac (pentru turism) and raniță), but Rucsac is
by far the most used one. In German language a backpack with a rigid
framework (or the framework itself) is called Kraxe. The British Army
uses the word bergen for a large load-carrying rucksack, from a design
issued during the Second World War.

Backpacks can often simply be referred to as "packs", especially in
outdoors contexts; though sometimes ambiguous compared to other bags
such as saddlebags and duffel bags, context is generally sufficient for
identification.

A bodypack is a backpack fitted with pocket(s) that are suspended on the
wearer's front side (chest) and loaded in such a way that the load in
the front and the load in the back are about equal. The majority of the
load on a bodypack is carried by the hips.

The ideal load carrying system should not disturb the wearer's natural
posture, balance and movement of the body. The load must be dispersed
onto the skeletal structure in a balanced way, and should not produce
forces on the body forward, aft, right, or left.

See backpacks on <http://www.nextcanvasbackpack.com>
