# Introduction

Mixxx is a DJ tool that allows for the playback and mixing of digital
music (MP3, Ogg Vorbis, and Wave).

The basic requirements for Mixxx are a pc or laptop with a reasonable
amount of storage space on the hard drive for your music, at least 1
audio card for outputting the sound and a way of controlling the
software either by mouse, keyboard or a hardware DJ Controller.

Mixxx will run on the Linux, Mac OS X and Windows operating systems

# Hardware Overview

Before you download and install Mixxx consider what your harware set-up
will be. Your PC\\Laptop, Audio Output and how you are planning to
control the software.

While you can run Mixxx on a PC the examples here refer to using a
laptop.

## Laptop(Stand-Alone)

Just a laptop and the Mixx software. Relying on the onboard sound card
to output your audio

## Laptop with 2 Deck DJ Controller (Deck Only)

A deck only DJ Controller allows you to control the Mixxx software. They
can be a single or twin deck setup, but generally the twin deck
controllers will have a jog wheel, volume faders, cross fader, EQ knobs,
play & cue buttons. DJ controller's are a MIDI controller and are now
commonly using USB to connect to your laptop. You still need a seperate
audio card for listening through your headphones and the outputting the
main mix.

For an example of a 2 Deck DJ Controller see the product site for the
Hercules DJ control MP3

Link to external site:
<http://www.hercules.com/us/DJ-Music/bdd/p/14/dj-control-mp3>

## Laptop with DJ Controller DJ Controller (Audio & Deck)

A DJ Controller with Audio means that your deck controller also has
onboard sound. This allows you to plug your headphones into the
controller, plug your outputs to the sound system and on some units add
a CDJ, Turntable or Microphone

##### Laptop with Vinyl Control

### Audio Output

The ideal way for any DJ to mix live is to have 4 channels of Audio
output. 2 for the main mix and 2 for cueing and previewing the next
track you are trying to mix in. This means either having multiple
soundcards or a soundcard capable of outputting 4 channels of audio.

### Dj Controllers

If you have made a decision about hardware make sure you consider
[System Requirements](System%20Requirements) and [Hardware
Compatibility](Hardware%20Compatibility)

## Operating Systems
