## Behringer CMD MM-1

##### Sound Peaks edition

This is a real life photo. All following examples will be made with a
help of 3D model.

[[/media/hardware/behringer/behringer_cmd_mm-1-overall-irl.jpg|behringer\_cmd\_mm-1-overall-irl.jpg]]

### Legend

##### (click to enlarge)

[[[/media/hardware/behringer/mm-legend-2-sp.jpg|mm-legend-2-sp.jpg]]](https://mixxx.org/wiki/lib/exe/fetch.php/hardware:behringer:mm-legend-2-sp.jpg)

LEDs of the controller has three states: orange, blue or blinking blue.
You can not turn them off. But you can dim their brightnes by pressing 4
CUE buttons
simultaneously<sup>[1](http://resolume.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=10639#p42068)</sup>

When the controller gets initialized, the button in the middle has blue
color to indicate that Mixxx sees the controller.

### Shift button

[[/media/hardware/behringer/behringer_cmd_mm-1-shift.jpg|behringer\_cmd\_mm-1-shift.jpg]]

If you press and hold button that button in the middle, called
\`\`Shift\`\`, and the press other buttons, you will get some extra
functionality.

[[/media/hardware/behringer/behringer_cmd_mm-1-switch-on.gif|behringer\_cmd\_mm-1-switch-on.gif]]

Now pressing `1`, `2` or `1` and `2` simultaneously will change Deck
orientation accordingly. 1 - to the left, 2 - to the right. 1 and 2
together - orientation will be at the center of the crossfader.

### Library

[[/media/hardware/behringer/behringer_cmd_mm-1-library.png|behringer\_cmd\_mm-1-library.png]]

When you click `Left` button, the focus moves to the left window of the
Library, and the rotary between \`\`Left\`\` and \`\`Right\` will go
through playlists and other. If you press the rotary, the list will
unfold.

If you click `Right`, the track list will be focused and turning the
rotray will select the tracks, pressing it will load the selected track
into the <span class="underline">first stopped deck</span>.

If you press `Right` again, selected track will be loaded into the
*PreviewDeck*. Press and hold RIGHT for 500ms and the track in the
PreviewDeck will get fast forward so you could get quicker to the main
part of the song .

### Special mode

This mode was designed to use MM-1 without any other pieces of hardware,
it allows you to perform 4 decks mixing. To enter Special Mode - click
together the blue button in the middle and the rotary between Left and
Right buttons. The middle button will blink now. From this moment button
1 is CUE and button 2 is Play / Pause. If you press \`\`Shift\`\` and
\`\`1\`\` or \`\`Shift\`\` and \`\`2\`\` together in this mode: the
track goes fast forward or rewind. If you hold these buttons for 1.5
sec, the speed of search get increased.

### Video

Coming soon.

### Download

<https://github.com/mevsme/MIDI>

### See aslo

[Begringer CMD DC-1](behringer_cmd_dc-1-sp) [Begringer CMD
DV-1](behringer_cmd_dv-1-sp)

### Links

[Forums](https://mixxx.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=8762)

### Resources

[CMD MM-1 3D
(.zip 2,6Mb)](http://stunkit.com/data/files/etc/cmd-mm-1.blend.zip)
