# Denon MC7000

(THIS SITE IS STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION)

[[/media/hardware/DenonDJ-img-MC7000.jpg|DenonDJ-img-MC7000.jpg]]

  - [Manufacturer's product
    page](https://www.denondj.com/professional-dj-controller-for-serato-mc7000xus)
  - [User
    Guide](http://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/denondj/MC7000/MC7000-UserGuide-v1.1.pdf)
  - [Hardware Setting
    Specification](http://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/denondj/MC7000/MC7000-Hardware-Settings-Mode-Specification-v1_4.pdf)
  - [Denon MC7000 Mapping thread within the MIXXX
    forum](https://www.mixxx.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=13126)

The Denon MC7000 is a professional DJ controller which has got 4-channel
capability and dual USB connections. These two USB audio interfaces
enable two DJs to play together. This controller includes Denon's high
build quality and superior 24-bit audio reproduction, makes this suited
to both mobile and club DJs.

The dual 6" platters have a touch-capacitive design with rotational LED
displays. The MC7000 has exclusive and dedicated Key Matching and
Changing controls that deliver an unprecedented ability to instantly and
harmonically match musical keys. The unit’s comprehensive, multi-input
mixer also provides access to line/phono inputs from both authentic
analogue (vinyl) and digital sources.

FEATURES

  - 4-channel DJ controller with digital mixer
  - Dual USB audio interfaces - connect 2 computers at once
  - 16 velocity-sensitive performance pads
  - New dedicated key-matching and changing controls
  - Solid 6-inch touch-capacitive platters with tracking LED
  - 2 mic inputs with dedicated controls
  - XLR Booth and Master connections

COMPATIBILITY

  - Windows users need to install the Windows Driver from [Denon
    Download Site](https://www.denondj.com/downloads)
  - Mac users should be just fine connecting the MC7000 and go
  - Linux users need to know that the internal sound device is not
    available out-of-the-box, due to non accepted USB clock source. You
    may just use a different audio interface and do without the MC7000
    sound device. Anyhow, a workaround is available by removing the
    clock source check and recompile the kernel as described here:
  - [How to modify sound/usb/clock.c to get sound
    working](https://narkive.com/2tDAO87f.11)
  - [How to compile the Linux
    Kernel](https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/compiling-linux-kernel-26.html)
  - When the Hardware is detected then you have got 2 outputs
    (Master/Booth out and Headphone) as well as 3 Input devices for
    Microphones.
  - I am in contact with the ALSA development team in order to resolve
    that issue so hopefully the sound device will be supported by the
    Linux Kernel in the future.

## Mapping

This controller is made for Serato DJ and most of the mapping is made
for MIXXX accordingly. Anyhow there are several changes made in order to
have a better experience. If you have any wishes to improve the mapping,
then please visit the forum and write them into the Denon MC7000 Mapping
thread.

[[/media/denonmc7000-layout.png|]]

1\. **Input Selector:** Set this switch to the desired audio source from
this channel. Channel’s controls will only send MIDI information when
its input selector is set to USB.

2\. **USB Selector:** Press this button to select whether the deck is
controlling the computer connected to USB Port 1 or USB Port 2. If only
one USB Port is connected the controller activates this automatically.

3\. **Channel Level:** Turn this knob to adjust the level of the
pre-fader, pre-EQ audio signal for the channel.

4\. **Channel Level Meters:** These LEDs display the audio signal level
of the channel.

5\. **Channel EQ:** Turn these knobs to boost or cut the high,
mid-range, and low frequencies for the channel.

6\. **Channel Filter:** Turn this knob to adjust the filter applied to
the channel. Turn the knob counterclockwise to apply a low-pass filter.
Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass Filter.

7\. **Channel Cue:** Press this button to send the channel’s pre-fader
signal to the headphones’ cue channel.

8\. **Channel Fader:** Use this fader to adjust the channel’s volume
level.

9\. **Crossfader Assign:** Routes the audio playing on the corresponding
channel to either side of the crossfader (L or R), or bypasses the
crossfader and sends the audio directly to the program mix (center,
Thru).

10\. **Crossfader:** Use this crossfader to mix between the left and
right decks.

11\. **Channel FX:** Use these buttons to apply Effect A and/or B to the
corresponding channel.

12\. **Sampler Volume:** Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of
the software’s sampler.

13\. **Master Level Meters:** These LEDs show the Master Audio signal in
hardware. **They will not match with the Master Level in MIXXX.**
