# Denon MC4000

[[/media/mc4000_angle_web_1200x750.jpg|mc4000\_angle\_web\_1200x750.jpg]]

  - [Manufacturer's product
    page](http://denondj.com/products/view/mc4000)
  - [Manual / Midi
    commands](http://b06ba727c886717f9577-fff53f927840131da4fecbedd819996a.r74.cf2.rackcdn.com//1444/documents/MC4000%20-%20User%20Guide%20-%20v1.2_00.pdf)
  - [Forum
    thread](https://www.mixxx.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=7443)

The MC4000 is a 2-deck Serato DJ controller for the professional
entertainer wrapping in-demand audio manipulation tools in a robust
steel chassis for rugged durability. In addition to precision
touch-activated jog wheels, performers get access to dedicated hot cue
and sample pads for on-the-fly creativity.

## Mapping

[[/media/hardware/denon_mc4000_controller_layout.svg|]]

1\. **Channel Level:** Turn this knob to adjust the level of the
pre-fader, pre-EQ audio signal for the channel.

2\. **Channel EQ:** Turn these knobs to boost or cut the high,
mid-range, and low frequencies for the channel.

3\. **Channel Filter:** Turn this knob to adjust the filter applied to
the channel. Turn the knob counterclockwise to apply a low-pass filter.
Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass filter.

4\. **Channel Cue:** Press this button to send the channel’s pre-fader
signal to the headphones’ cue channel.

5\. **Channel Fader:** Use this fader to adjust the channel’s volume
level.

6\. **Crossfader:** Use this crossfader to mix between the two decks.

7\. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions
of other controls.

8\. **Sync / Sync Off:** Press this button to automatically match the
corresponding Deck’s tempo with the opposite Deck’s tempo and phase.
<span class="underline">Unlike Serato, Shift + sync is not mapped to
anything.</span>

9\. **Cue / Track Start:** During playback, press this button to return
the track to a temporary cue point. If you have not set a temporary cue
point, then press this button to return to the start of the track. (To
set a temporary cue point, make sure the track is paused, move the
platter to place the audio playhead at the desired location, and then
press this button.).

If the deck is paused, press and hold this button to play the track from
the temporary cue point. Release the button to return the track to the
temporary cue point and pause it. To continue playback without returning
to the temporary cue point, press and hold this button and then press
and hold the Play button, and then release both buttons.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to return to the start
of the track.

10\. **Play/Pause / Stutter:** This button pauses or resumes playback.
Press and hold Shift and then press this button to “stutter-play” the
track from the last set cue point.

11\. **Hot Cues:** Press any of these 4 pads to set and jump to a hot
cue point. To set a hot cue point, press an unlit pad at the desired
location in the track (the pad will then be lit). To jump to that hot
cue point, press the lit pad. To delete a hot cue point, press and hold
Shift and then press a lit pad.

12\. **Pad Mode:** <span class="underline">Currently unmapped</span>

13\. **Platter:** This capacitive, touch-sensitive platter controls the
audio playhead when the wheel is touched and moved. When the Vinyl
button is on, move the platter to “scratch” the track as you would with
a vinyl record. When the Vinyl button is off (or if you are touching
only the side of the platter), move the platter to temporarily adjust
the track’s speed.

~~While editing a loop, move the platter to adjust the Loop In or Loop
Out point. Press and hold Shift and then move the platter to move
quickly through the track.~~

14\. **Vinyl / Censor:** Press this button activate/deactivate a “vinyl
mode” for the platter. When activated, you can use the platter to
“scratch” the track as you would with a vinyl record.

Press and hold Shift and then press and hold this button to activate the
Censor feature: the playback of the track will be reversed, but when you
release the button, normal playback will resume from where it would have
been if you had never engaged the Censor feature (i.e., as if the track
had been playing forward the whole time).

15\. **Key Lock / Range:** Press this button to activate/deactivate Key
Lock. When Key Lock is activated, the track’s key will remain the same
even if you adjust its speed.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to cycle through the
available ranges of the pitch fader. <span class="underline">Note:
currently hard coded to +/- 8, 16, 50%</span>

16\. **Pitch Bend -/+ :** Press and hold one of these buttons to
momentarily reduce or increase (respectively) the speed of the track.

Press and hold Shift and then press and hold one of these buttons to
rewind or fast-forward (respectively) through the track.

17\. **Pitch Fader:** Move this fader to adjust the speed (pitch) of the
track. You can adjust its total range with the Key Lock / Range button.

18\. **FX Level:** Turn this knob to adjust the level of the
corresponding effect. The FX On button under the knob must be lit for
this knob to function. Press and hold Shift and then turn this knob to
scroll through the list of effects.

19\. **FX Beats:** <span class="underline">currently unmapped</span>

20\. **FX On / Select:** Press this button to turn the corresponding
effect on or off for the given channel.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to select an effect in
the software. <span class="underline">Note: Both decks control the same
FX unit.</span>

21\. **FX Tap:** ~~Tap this button repeatedly at the desired tempo to
set the rate of the effects’ lowfrequency oscillators (LFOs). Press and
hold this button to reset Beat Multiplier to the Deck’s BPM.~~
(<span class="underline">currently not functional</span>)

22\. **Auto-Loop / Auto 4:** Press this button to toggle a 4 beat loop
on or off. Press and hold Shift and then press this button to toggle
beat quantize on or off (I.e quantization of loop start / end points to
the nearest beat). <span class="underline">Note: this behavior is
different from Serato</span>.

23\. **X 1/2 Loop / Loop In:** Press this button to halve the length of
the current loop.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to create a Loop In
point at the current location.

24\. **X 2 Loop / Loop Out:** Press this button to double the length of
the current loop.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to create a Loop Out
point at the current location.

25\. **Reloop:** Press this button to exit the current loop if in loop
mode, or skip to the last-played loop and activate it immediately if
playing.

26\. **Browse / Library Knob:** Turn this knob to navigate through the
software.

~~Press the knob to select an item. Press and hold Shift and then turn
this knob to browse quickly through the tracks in your library.~~

27\. **Load:** Press this button to load the currently selected track to
the deck.

28\. **Back / Panel:** Press this button to toggle maximized library
(<span class="underline">Different from Serato mapping</span>).

29\. **Load Prep / Open Prep:** Press this button to load the currently
selected track to the preview deck.

Press and hold Shift and then press this button to eject the current
track from the preview deck. (<span class="underline">Different from
Serato mapping</span>).

30\. **Sampler Pads:** Press these pads to play their corresponding
samples in the software’s sampler (1–4).

Press and hold Shift and then press a pad to stop its sample playback.

31\. **Sample Level:** Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the
software’s sampler.

32\. **Level Meters:** These LEDs display the audio signal depending on
the state of each deck and Channel Fader. The meters are not affected by
the position of the Master Knob.

~~If a Channel Fader is at its minimum position, the meter will show the
deck’s pre-fader level. The left meter represents Deck 1, and the right
meter represents Deck 2. If a Channel Fader is higher than its minimum
position, both meters will show the summed, post-fader output of the
playing deck(s). Press the Cue button on a deck to split the meters
between a cued deck (Channel Fader at its minimum position) and a
playing deck (Channel Fader higher than its minimum position). The LEDs
for the Cue deck will change only if audio is playing. Otherwise, it
will continue showing the summed, post-fader output of the playing
deck.~~

33\. **Mic Volume:** <span class="underline">Hardware only</span>

34\. **Mic Echo:** <span class="underline">Hardware only</span>

35\. **Mic Talk Over / Post:** <span class="underline">Hardware
only</span>

36\. **Master:** <span class="underline">Hardware only</span>

37\. **Booth:** <span class="underline">Hardware only</span>

38\. **Aux:** <span class="underline">Hardware only</span>
