# DJ headphones

Being able to listen to what you will play next in headphones before
your audience hears on the main speakers or your broadcast stream it is
an essential part of DJing. DJ headphones are generally better quality
than typical consumer headphones. Importantly, they are designed to have
good isolation, meaning they block outside sound. This allows the DJ to
focus on the sound in the headphones better without having to turn up
the volume to drown out sound from the monitors, PA system, and chatter.
Also, DJ headphones have hinges or flexible headbands that allow the DJ
to take off one headphone cup to hear the monitor or PA output better in
one ear and compare it to the headphone output in the other ear.

When shopping for headphones, consider how well they isolate sound and
their durability. The most frequent places that headphones break are the
cable attachment point and the headband. Look for headphones with
detachable cables, metal headbands, and other individually replaceable
parts. Avoid Bluetooth headphones because these may be unreliable and
will always reduce sound quality. Active noise canceling headphones also
tend to have worse sound quality than other headphones of a comparable
price. DJ headphones with a closed design block out a lot of sound
simply by being closed.

Whether to get on-ear or over-ear headphones is a matter of personal
preference. Everyone's head is different, so headphones that are
comfortable for a friend or a reviewer may not be comfortable for you.

## In-ear monitors

In-ear monitors (IEMs) isolate sound better than headphones but are more
expensive. Good DJ headphones can be purchased new for $150-250; IEMs
with comparable sound quality cost $350-$1000. They may be a sound
investment for musicians who play often in very loud environments to
preserve their hearing.
