| General                       | Download                                     | Forums                                       | Bugs                                                     | Wiki                                     | IRC                                              | Developer Mailing List                                                               |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [mixxx.org](http://mixxx.org) | [Get Mixxx\!](http://mixxx.org/download.php) | [mixxx.org/forums](http://mixxx.org/forums/) | [Mixxx launchpad bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx) | [mixxx.org/wiki](http://mixxx.org/wiki/) | [\#mixxx on freenode](irc://freenode.net/#mixxx) | [Mixxx-devel mailing list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mixxx-devel) |

## Getting Involved with Mixxx

You want to make Mixxx better, but what can you do?

\<cue Daft Punk synths\>

Code it\! Tune it\!

Tweak it\! Skin it\!

Teach it\! Test it\!

Show it\! Support it\!

Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger\!

## Code it\!

The most direct way to help Mixxx is through coding - patches that fix
bugs are welcomed with open arms (attach them to a [LP bug
report](http://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx) or send them to the [mailing
list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mixxx-devel)). Mixxx
is written in C++ and makes extensive use of the
[Qt](http://www.qtsoftware.com/) libraries, which make C++ a lot more
like Java then C.

Minor feature enhancements can be sent to the [mailing
list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mixxx-devel).

Bigger changes can be done by [creating a
branch](http://mixxx.org/wiki/doku.php/using_bazaar#general_procedure_for_distributed_use)
on [Launchpad](https://code.launchpad.net/mixxx) and then proposing a
merge when the changes reach a stable state.

**So you're somewhat technical but not a C++ coder, what else can you
do?**

## Tune it\!

You can publish your tricks for tuning Mixxx to the max on whatever
combination operating system/hardware you run onto the
[Wiki](http://mixxx.org/wiki/); new users often struggle with a getting
good low-latency set-up so easy to follow tuning instructions are an
invaluable contribution.

## Tweak it\!

With a little knowledge JavaScript, you can [modify the hardware
controller script files](midi_scripting) in the midi folder (remember to
send patches to the
[list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mixxx-devel)) do
crazy-new-awesome things or just fix up a function that is already
there.

## Skin it\!

Are you good at graphics design? Help make Mixxx look even better by
doing some artwork or skinning the interface.

Make a skin, check out this page for how to -\>
[creating\_skins](creating_skins) \<- The page sort of sucks

Make some promo artwork - i.e. T-Shirt designs, logos, etc and post them
to the list or on our forums

Keep the work original please (ripping off other people's copyrights
ain't cool and it can get us in trouble).

## Teach it\!

If you already know you are a kick-ass DJ, please show us your awesome
skills and teach us a thing or two about how to use Mixxx to DJ better
by doing a video and putting it up on
[Youtube](http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=mixxx) or
[Vimeo](http://www.vimeo.com/videos/search:mixxx).

Mixxx is looking for a resident DJ to teach the rest of us. ;)

## Test it\!

Grab the latest feature builds (looping, library) from our build server
and try them out, suggest subtle improvements, figure out a method to
crash them and then [report bugs and suggestions onto
launchpad](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx).

## Show it\!

If you love Mixxx, show it... Record a mash-up and [post
it](http://soundcloud.com/). Show Mixxx off in a club. Show Mixxx to
your friends.... take Mixxx on a world tour. We'll provide the Mixxx
stickers. :D

Then show us what you did on [IRC](irc://freenode.net/#mixxx), the
[forums](http://mixxx.org/forums/), or the [mailing
list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mixxx-devel).

## Support it\!

Not technical? No time to spare? No worries, making a monetary donation
only takes about 2 minutes. [![Mixxx PayPal Donation
Button](https://www.paypal.com/en_GB/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=donations%40mixxx%2eorg&lc=GB&item_name=Mixxx&currency_code=USD&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF%3abtn_donateCC_LG%2egif%3aNonHostedGuest)

We also accept hardware donations from manufacturers of DJ equipment
which we use to improve both specific and general hardware support in
Mixxx.
