# Student Project Ideas for Google Summer of Code 2017

This page lists the suggested projects for students working on Mixxx as
part of [Google Summer of
Code 2017](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/). Each of
these projects represents something that we think would make a really
big difference to our users and that we as a development team are really
excited about. For advice on how to get in touch and how to apply, you
should read [GSoC Advice](gsocadvice).

**A GSoC application that simply repeats the project description will
NOT be accepted. We expect you to think about the feature and how it
aligns with Mixxx's goals, outline potential use-cases and propose a
plan for implementing a solution.**

# Live Broadcasting Improvements

Live broadcasting is a very important use case for many users of Mixxx.
This allows DJs to stream their performances online via Internet radio
stations and other venues (e.g. SecondLife).

## Multiple Broadcasting Profiles

Live broadcasters use Mixxx to stream to their listeners via an Icecast
or Shoutcast server. Mixxx currently supports a single "profile" of
settings. For broadcasters that frequently stream to multiple services
(e.g. if they are a DJ on multiple internet radio stations) they have to
re-enter their login and stream configuration details every time they
switch stations. This project entails adding support for multiple live
broadcasting profiles or presets.

## Multiple Connections at Once

Live broadcasters have requested the ability to stream to multiple
stations at once.

## Something Else\!

As always with Summer of Code, you aren't limited to the suggestions
we've made here. If you've got a great idea for a project involving
Mixxx then we're looking forward to hearing about it. Our bug tracker is
full of wishlist bugs and other ideas scattered throughout, so if you
browse through it, you may find many more ideas for GSoC projects.

**IMPORTANT: You should [contact us](gsocadvice) first to get feedback
if you're going to submit a proposal for your own project idea\!**
