# Implementing an improved MIDI control system into the Mixxx project (GSoC 2008 project)

  - Student: **Thomas Lachlan Care**
  - Mentor: **Garth Dahlstrom**

### Abstract from GSoC Application

I am an undergraduate Software Engineer who believes he can contribute
significantly to the Mixxx project on both a short term and long term
basis. I aim to implement a combination of major and minor features, as
well as paving the way to implement features beyond the Google SOC 2008.
The main feature I wish to improve is general MIDI support – a task well
suited to me, due to my personal hardware and experience with industry
DJ equipment as a performer. I also plan to implement small features as
a secondary objective, building on the well-designed feature set of
Mixxx. Most of these features come from my experience as a Trance DJ –
e.g. CDJ like interface, general customisability extensions (pitch
increments, for example), and jog dial sensitivity. My lack of
satisfaction with current DJ software and personal desire to experiment
with my hardware will result in me being a long-term contributor to this
project. I am a reliable person who is a pleasure to work with and I
hope I can benefit the project in any way possible.

### About this page

This page will be used during the GSoC 2008 to let the community know
the status of the project, in addition to getting feedback on aspects of
the project. Tom believes that community input is essential\!

**Current status of the project:** Forming basic use cases, general
brainstorming, preparing ideas for community feedback.

### About Tom

You can contact Tom or read about him at this page:
<http://soc.corrodedreality.org/>

### Project Overview

The basic goal of the project is to improve MIDI support in Mixxx. MIDI
in Mixxx should be: \* Effortless to configure \* Have support for
common hardware 'out of the box' \* Be capable of supporting even the
weirdest hardware combinations \* Reliable \* Maintainable
