# HID Packet Parser JS Library

This document describes how Mixxx 1.11 javascript implementation of HID
packet parsers works. Our goal is to help mapping writers undrstand why
and how things happen.

As usual, this document is just a draft and needs more content.

For details about HID data formats and concepts, please read details
from following web page:

<http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage>

Also please remember that javascript does not have classes: you can
write functions which look like classes in other languages, with member
functions and private attributes, but they are not classes.

To help bashing the myth of javascript classes, we call all these
prototypes below as functions.

## Short HID Format Summary

When working with HID, forget anything you have learned about MIDI.
Unlike MIDI, HID sends data packets with size anything from 1 byte to
maximum value allowed by standard (check from specs what it is), and
similarly arbitrary size HID packets can be sent to devices.

In HID, each input and output packet usually contains information for
multiple fields: for example, a HID keyboard sends 1 byte keycode for 6
different pressed keys simultaneously with three byte header with values
0x1,0x0,0x0 in the header, so total packet size is 9 bytes. Similarly,
on a typical HID controller, you will receive a packet with multiple
control values and send data for multiple output controls (LEDs, text
fields etc) in one larger packet.

The HID standard has concept of HID usage page, which contains
descriptions of each byte in input and output packets. Unfortunately
it's not mandatory to provide these packets, and typical DJ controller
does not provide these packets. Thus, we must parse our own HID packets
in Mixxx.

Unlike MIDI data, HID can contain multiple byte values for single field:
for example, most HID controllers send fader details in a 2 byte (short)
numeric field, not necessarily using whole range of values. As an
example, Pioneer CDJ pitch fader has value range -1000 to 1000,
expressed with two bytes. Another example of complex HID packet fields
is the output packet for Pioneer CDJ devices, which sends the waveform
display in one packet to the device: the packet size is hundreds of
bytes.

## Supported HID input field types

The current Mixxx javascript implementation for HID input packets
supports following types of fields in the parser:

  - One byte signed or unsigned numeric value (packing codes b and B)
  - Two byte signed and unsgined numeric value (packing codes h and H)
  - Four byte signed and unsigned numeric value (packing codes i and I)
  - Parsing of bit mask fields from one packet of above sizes

The bit mask fields are implemented as normal numeric value field, which
has type bitvector and which has value of internal class HIDBitVector.
Any bit mask size from 1 to number of bytes in the field is supported,
but usually you want to address one bit for input button toggles.

Note that you can't choose the endianess of the packing in current code.
Also note the javascript numbers implementation for bit arithmetic
limits the size of one field to 32 bits.

## Supported HID output field types

For HID packet output, I could not bother writing any other types of
output fields than bit masked bits in one byte size packets and sending
of one byte numeric values, signed or unsigned: main reason I did not
implement other types of fields yet is that I don't have any devices
which need this. It is easy to add other packing formats, when required.
Longer fields than one byte for output need to be constructed by script
writer for now.

## Packet signature

Each HID packet has following attributes:

  - Packet name is used to refer to the packets from javascript and are
    not sent to controller. In most cases, the device sends one control
    input status packet to indicate state of buttons and controls, and
    this packet should be named control to allow the parser
    automatically parse it.
  - Packet header can contain static bytes in the beginning of the
    packet. This is completely dependent on the controller, for example
    Pioneer CDJ control packet does not have any header, but output
    packets have 1-4 byte prefixes. The header is given as javascript
    array, or empty array if no header bytes are set. The header bytes
    are always sent in the packet and the received packets are
    recognized by the header signature.
  - Optional packet callback function can be registered in packet
    declaration for input packets. If a packet callback is defined and
    the packet is received, the packet is sent to the callback function
    after field values are parsed, without calling any packet field
    parsing functions.

Internally, each packet registers the packet fields following mixxx
naming conventions, i.e. each field must have a group and name. The
group and name don't need to be valid mixxx controls, but if the group
is valid mixxx control group, we try to automate mapping the field to
mixxx controls.

## Packet Field packing and unpacking

Since HID controller packet fields can be larger than one byte, I
thought it good idea to implement field description based on following
details:

  - Group defines the group name for the field. The group can be any
    string, but if it matches a valid mixxx control group name, it is
    possible to map a field to a control or output without any
    additional code. See recommendations for custom group naming later
    in the document to undestand some HIDController specific goodies.
  - Name is the control name for the field. The name can be any string,
    but if it matches a valid mixxx control name in the group defined
    for field, the system attempts to attach it directly to the correct
    field. Together group and name form ID for the field (group.name).

Offset defines field's offset from the start of the packet. For example,
with 2 byte header, first field in packet must have offset of 2, and if
the first field was packing h or H (a 2 byte short integer), second
field should have offset 4.

  - Pack is one of the field packing types mentioned above. Purpose of
    this is to allow script writer to receive or send the correct
    numeric values for a field, not bothering with end of field or
    parsing the received value itself
  - Bitmask is only defined for fields which are not expected to handle
    all bits in the control field. For fields with bitmasks, you can
    define same offset and pack multiple times with different bitmask
    values to get for example all 8 bits of a buttons state byte to
    different control fields in addControl input packet command. Masking
    multiple bits should work but has not been as widely tested.
  - Callback is optional argument to bind a callback function to the
    field in input packets. If a field has callback, the function is
    called with parsed field value, and any calls to other standard
    functions are skipped. It's not recommended to bind callbacks to
    function while describing the HID packets, because it makes the
    packets less reusable: you can bind a callback to fields later in
    your script with HIDController.RegisterCallback function.
  - Is\_encoder is boolean field, undefined by default, which makes the
    field value as encoder type field. Encoder type fields take the
    range of values available in the field, calls the field functions
    with correct -1 or 1 offset based on direction, and wraps the number
    when max to 0 or 0 to max changes are seen.

Note: scaling functions and automated field group resolutio are NOT done
for fields which have a registered callback function. The callback
function is expected to do required field name resolution and scale
values itself.

## Scaling of field values to Mixxx ranges

In almost every case, a HID controller sends data values with input
fields which are not directly suitable for mixxx control values. To
solve this issue, HIDController contains function to scale the input
value to suitable range automatically before calling any field
processing functions. Scalers can be registered with
HIDController.registerScalingFunction(group,name,callback) in
HIDController.

## HIDPacket object

HIDPacket object wraps all details of reading HID input packets and
sending HID output packets to devices. HIDPackets are expected to be
defined by the HID description writers only, people using the HID device
description only need to read the assigned field names. HIDPacket
packets have some common functions to use:

  - HIDPacket.AddControl(group, name, offset, pack, bitmask, callback,
    is\_encoder): This function is used to add a normal field to packet,
    as described above. Same function is used to add numeric value
    fields (bitmask is undefined) and bit mask field offsets (bitmask
    has a valid value). The last parameter is\_encoder is a boolean
    value to define how the field values are processed. See details
    above.
  - HIDPacket.AddLED(group, name, offset, pack, bitmask): This function
    is used to define an output LED control to output packets: LEDs are
    specialized fields to allow us to define LED colors nicely and to
    add API functions like
    HIDController.setLED(“\[Channel1\]”,”play”,”green”)
    easily.
  - HIDPacket.setMinDelta(group, name, minimum\_change): Some HID
    controllers seem to send lots of minimal changes which are not
    meaningful for mixxx users. This allows you to set a threshold
    value, which ignores the input if field value changed by less than
    given amount.
  - HIDPacket.setIgnored(group, name): This function can be set in
    script code to ignore a field you don't want to be processed but
    still wanted to define to make packet format complete from
    specifications. In most cases you can just leave the ignored field
    undefined in your mapping.

Note that all field types, the internal structure is similar. In case of
bitmasked fields, the field type is set to bitvector and the bit values
are stored to HIDBitVector stored in field value. Similarly a LED has
type led and some extra attributes for blinking etc.

## HIDController object

HIDController is a javascript object, with multiple methods allowing
mostly automatic HID packet processing. It is expected to be used in
place of the new Controller calls in normal MIDI mappings. This function
prototype is quite complex and it's not yet documented fully here:
please read source in common-hid-packet-parser.js, which contains nice
comments for each function and what it does.

It also defines multiple documented attributes, which for example allow
implementing scratching just by adding special field names 'jog\_touch'
and 'jog' to the HID fields, and adjusting the attribute values for
scratching to get correct performance.

## Required end-user script functions

Following functions need to be implemented in end user classes. This is
due to issues with mixxx qtscript calls and namespaces, where
this.functionName does not work directly from a prototype function like
HIDController. Same rules as for MIDI scripts and HID scripts without
HIDController prototypes apply.

  - init()
  - shutdown()
  - incomingData(data,length)

See below examples for common usage of these functions.

## Minimal example scripts using HID packet parser

There are multiple very simple mappings in mixxx 1.11 tree, which can be
studied for the expected ways of using the common hid packet parser
code. The simple mappings are in:

  - common-hid-devices.js: contains example descriptions for standard
    HID trackpad/mouse and HID keyboard. Apple Bluetooth
    Keyboard.cntrlr.xml, Apple Bluetooth Keyboard.js. Example script
    just dumping the key presses received from a standard USB keyboard
  - Sony SixxAxis.cntrlr.xml: Simple mapping using separate files for
    HID packet declaration and script mappings
  - Sony SixxAxis.hid.js: The hid packet declarations for previous XML
  - Sony SixxAxis.js: Actual mixxx control mappings for PS3 controller
    inputs, using previous hid.js file
  - Nintendo Wiimote: Similar files as sixxaxis mappings, introducing
    the style of writing abstract packet format and linking everything
    in actual script to controls. If you wish to understand how fields
    in HID are mapped to controls, please read file Nintendo
    Wiimote.hid.js. For more complex usage, but older and not as clean
    code, you can read EKS Otus.js which was the first mapping written
    with these classes (and will be rewritten in style of the Wiimote
    controller scripts).
