# Setting up KDevelop to work on Mixxx

[KDevelop](http://kdevelop.org/) is an integrated development
environment (IDE) that makes working on a large C++ project like Mixxx
much easier than a text editor. This wiki page will help you set up
KDevelop 5 to work on Mixxx.

First, before running KDevelop, [compile Mixxx](compiling%20on%20linux).
This is important because there are header files generated by the Qt
build process and Protobuf that are \#included by the .cpp files in
Mixxx's src directory. If KDevelop can't find those, it won't be able to
parse the structure of Mixxx.

In KDevelop, go to Project \> Open/import project. Select the directory
where the Mixxx source code is (not the "src" directory, the one above
that; the root of the git repository). Press Next and select Custom
BuildSystem in the Project manager dropdown. On the left side of
KDevelop, click Projects. Right click on your project and select Open
Configuration.

## Configure SCons

In the Custom BuildSystem pane, under the Build Tools section, type
`scons` in the Executable field and add your [scons
arguments](compiling%20on%20linux#compile%20and%20install) to the
Arguments field (this should at least include your prefix argument).
This will allow you to build Mixxx easily within KDevelop. Building
within KDevelop allows you to click on compile errors and warnings to
open the corresponding source code file at the place where the
error/warning is pointing to.

## Specify \#include paths

Select the Language Support pane and click the Batch edit button to edit
the list of \#include paths. KDevelop normally detects the \#include
paths from the build system, but it is not able to do this with SCons.
There are some paths that must be included in the Mixxx source tree;
these must be absolute paths, not relative to the project root.

Copy and paste the list below into the Batch edit dialog, replacing
`[MIXXX LOCATION]` with wherever you have your Mixxx source tree. The
version numbers for the libraries in mixxx/lib are for those included
with Mixxx 2.1. If they have been updated, please update this wiki page.
The paths in /usr are for those on Fedora 24. They may need some
adjustment for your distribution.

    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/benchmark/include
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/fidlib-0.9.10
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gtest-1.7.0/include
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gmock-1.7.0
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gmock-1.7.0/gtest
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gmock-1.7.0/gtest/include
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gmock-1.7.0/include
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/gtest-1.7.0/include/gtest
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/hidapi-0.8.0-rc1/hidapi
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/libebur128-1.1.0/ebur128
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/portaudio
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/qtscript-bytearray
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/replaygain
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/reverb
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/soundtouch-1.9.2
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/vamp-2.6
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lib/xwax
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/lin64_build
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/src
    [MIXXX LOCATION]/vamp-plugins
    /usr/include
    /usr/include/ffmpeg
    /usr/include/glib-2.0
    /usr/lib64/glib-2.0/include
    /usr/include/taglib
    /usr/include/libupower-glib
    /usr/include/Qt
    /usr/include/Qt3Support
    /usr/include/QtCore
    /usr/include/QtDBus
    /usr/include/QtDeclarative
    /usr/include/QtDesigner
    /usr/include/QtGui
    /usr/include/QtHelp
    /usr/include/QtMultimedia
    /usr/include/QtNetwork
    /usr/include/QtOpenGL
    /usr/include/QtScript
    /usr/include/QtScriptTools
    /usr/include/QtSql
    /usr/include/QtSvg
    /usr/include/QtXml
    /usr/include/QtTest
    /usr/include/QtUiTools
    /usr/include/QtWebKit
    /usr/include/QtXmlPatterns
    /usr/lib/scons/SCons
