# MIDI Controller Mapping File Format

## Introduction

Support for extra MIDI devices can be added to Mixxx by created a new
"MIDI mapping" file. This mapping file tells Mixxx how to translate MIDI
commands from a controller into commands that Mixxx will understand.

The MIDI mapping files are located in the following paths:

  - Windows: C:\\Program Files\\Mixxx\\midi
  - Linux: /usr/share/mixxx/midi (or /usr/local/share/mixxx/midi)
  - OS X: /Applications/Mixxx.app/Contents/midi

The easiest way to create a new MIDI mapping is by modifying an existing
one. When you've finished creating your MIDI mapping, **please send it
to us** and we'll include it in Mixxx.

## File Format

The midi mapping format is xml based. It looks something like this:

\<\!DOCTYPE controller\> \<controller\>

``` 
 <controls>
   <control>
     <group>[[Master]]</group>
     <key>crossfader</key>
     <miditype>Ctrl</miditype>
     <midino>0x31</midino>
     <options>
       <hercjog/>
     </options>
   </control>
   ...
 </controls>
 <lights>
   <light>
     <group>[[Channel1]]</group>
     <key>VuMeter</key>
     <status>0xB0</status>
     <midino>0x16</midino>
     <threshold>0.5</threshold>
   </light>
   ...
 </lights>
```

\</controller\>

Definitions of the elements:

    These define the part of Mixxx that is being controlled:

  - group - The controlobject group
  - key - The controlobject key, a list of which can be found on the
    [UI/MIDI Controls and Names](ui_midi_controls_and_names) page.

<!-- end list -->

    These tags define the MIDI event that Mixxx will listen for:

  - miditype - Midi object type: Ctrl, Key or Pitch
  - midino - The MIDI control or note number
  - midichan - The MIDI channel
  - controltype - Hint to Mixxx what kind of control this is. Possible
    values: knob, wheel, fader, button. For most controls this will
    define the behaviour of the control (eg jog wheel, analog knob).
    There is also a generic control enabling someone to define the
    behaviour using options.
  - options - Further refine the behaviour of the control (e.g.
    translations, sensitivity, acceleration) Necessary options (defined
    by controltype) will have default values, eg a jogwheel might have
    no acceleration by default. Can only handle one element currently
    but expandable, these aren't well described here: *(Then where?)*
  - invert
  - rot64inv
  - rot64fast
  - rot64
  - diff - Add the value to the control's current value
  - button - a button has a *Down* (non-zero) and an *Up* (zero) state,
    these occur together when pressed/released, this switch only
    triggers on the *Down*, *Up* is ignored. (Herc)
  - switch - a switch has a *On* (non-zero) and an *Off* (zero) state,
    these occur separately. (Herc)
  - hercjog - Handle hercules jog wheels
  - spread64 - Exponential spread either side of 64, aka "relative"
    controller (NEW)
  - status - Status code to send to control lights (e.g. Note on (0x9x),
    Control Change (0xBx))
  - threshold - Turn on light when control exceeds this value

# UI/MIDI Controls and Names

Each control inside Mixxx is identified by a unique string. These
strings are used in the keyboard mappings, the MIDI mappings, and inside
Mixxx to gain access to the controls. The following is a list of
controls that can be used in any of the above contexts.

## List of Controls

The default range is 0.0 to 1.0, unless otherwise noted.

\[Master\]

  - crossfader: min = -1.0, max = 1.0
  - samplerate

\[ChannelN\] (where N is a number 1 or 2)

  - play
  - cue\_default
  - cue\_simple
  - cue\_cdj
  - volume
  - pregain
  - pfl
  - flanger
  - temporalShapeRate (?)
  - temporalPhaseRate (?)
  - wheel
  - scratch
  - beatsync
  - rate
  - rate\_perm\_down
  - rate\_perm\_up
  - rate\_temp\_down: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - rate\_temp\_up: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - reverse
  - back: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - fwd: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - filterLowKill
  - filterMidKill
  - filterHighKill
  - NextTrack
  - PrevTrack
  - playposition
  - LoadSelectedTrack - loads selected track from the
    playlist/tracktable.

\[Playlist\]

  - SelectNextTrack - scrolls to the next track in the
    playlist/tracktable.
  - SelectPrevTrack - scrolls to the previous track in the
    playlist/tracktable.

Note: This is an incomplete list. There are a ton of these controls
mapped inside Mixxx.

The full list can be generated by running the following script in your
mixxx/src directory:

\======

    #!/bin/sh
    # set -x
    IFS='
    '
    last_control=
    
    for ck in `grep ConfigKey *.cpp | sed -e 's/ConfigKey(group/ConfigKey("[Master]"/g' | grep 'ConfigKey("' | grep -v "Channel2" | sed -e 's/.*ConfigKey(//g' -e 's/, */,/g' | cut -d\) -f1 | sed -e 's/\[Channel1\]/\[ChannelN\] (where N is a number 1 or 2)/g' | sort -fu`; do
      control=`echo $ck|cut -d\" -f2`
      if [ "$control" != "$last_control" ]; then
        echo
        echo $control
        last_control=$control
      fi
      key=`echo $ck|cut -d\" -f4`
      if [ ! -z "${key}" ]; then echo "* ${key}"; fi
    done

## Using Controls Inside Mixxx (for developers)

If you want to access one of these controls inside Mixxx, you can do so
with something like this:

``` 
 ControlObjectThreadMain* controlRightPitch = new ControlObjectThreadMain(ControlObject::getControl(ConfigKey("[[Channel2]]", "rate")));
```

That line will give you a ControlObject which allows you to read and
control the pitch of the right channel in Mixxx. For example, to
increase the pitch of the track in the right channel, one could do
something like this:

``` 
 float fRightPitch = controlRightPitch->get();
 controlRightPitch->slotSet(fRightPitch + 0.10);
```

This would increase the pitch of the right channel inside Mixxx, and the
GUI controls would automatically reflect this change. Access to
ControlObjects is also thread-safe when used this way.

**Important note:** Different types of ControlObject wrappers must be
used depending on what thread your code is running in. This example
assumes the code will run in the GUI (ie. main) thread. The
ControlObjects wrappers should be used as follows:

  - **ControlObjectThreadMain** - GUI (main) thread
  - **ControlObject** - The audio callback thread (most audio processing
    happens here)
  - **ControlObjectThread** - Other threads
