Even though some mainstream artists have recently decided to release
their music on LP's, I'm guessing for nostalgia reasons only, they still
know that the digital format is what people really want. A few years ago
digital music saw a boost in popularity because of a site like Napster.
Today, the list of digital music sites is growing, and for good reason.
Everybody has a digital music player, also known as an mp3 player.
Compact discs are still popular because people like the idea of having
something tangible in their hands, probably for the same reasons that we
don't yet live in a paperless society. However, music downloads are
quickly becoming the popular medium for obtaining music. The process is
fast, as in instant. If you pay a fee for it, it's legal, and the best
part is, its digital. You get a high sound quality in a small sized file
because of the recording format. Although people like sound engineers
may or may not be able to tell a difference between an mp3 and a CD
file, the average person will never hear the difference.

Sites like MySpace and companies like Apple with iTunes have given bands
that might not ever see their music encased in a CD wrapper the chance
to showcase their talent via the Internet. Just about every band you can
think of has a MySpace page, and if they don't, they could be slightly
missing out on the power of the web 2.0 era. The Internet can reach far
more people than a tank of gas and a dream. Its smart marketing, at a
fairly cheap cost. If you go and see an [unknown
band](http://www.legalsoundz.com)perform in a club or bar, chances are
they have a MySpace page and, they'll be happy to tell you about it so
you'll tell other people too. The Internet can do more for a band who
wants you to download songs from their CD than the typical music
promotion model. It's the word of mouth activity about an artist that
spreads faster than anything.

Major artists rely heavily on marketing and distribution through their
major record label to get their music out to the masses. If they are an
established artist, their name and music can speak for itself.
Independent musicians may have a harder time building a base if they
just tour in their hometown or play the occasional state fair. The
Internet has changed the way we listen to and buy music. If a band wants
to be noticed beyond the zip code they reside in, on a shoestring
budget, then they've got to use the Internet to get their music heard by
as many people as possible, and build their 'buzz'.

New social music sites such as JamBuzzer help artists not only build
their buzz by helping them spread their music virally to potential fans
all over the world, but also help fans find quality music that is
becoming harder to find in the major industry roster of artists.

Many independent artists and bands are self-produced and self-funded, so
they rely completely on their talent, and their knowledge of the
Internet to be heard. The great thing about sitest
like[JamBuzzer](http://www.legalsoundz.com)and MySpace is that an artist
can release individual singles or a few songs from their CD for you to
listen to; and get feedback quickly as well as have the potential to
build an army of fans who will tell others about their music. It is
similar to the days when cassette singles were popular. If you liked the
one song that was offered, you might go buy the rest of the album. The
same strategy applies today with music downloads; give the potential
fans a teaser, let them hear it for free so maybe they'll like it and
buy the whole collection. It's a gamble that's paying off for some
artists, and the future of the music business could potentially be one
where artists make more money by giving their songs away fro free than
by the standard model. This new model however, will take strategic
planning, and although it's a risk, the potential reward is quite high.

In today's digital music world, downloaded songs are a great indication
to an artist that their music is popular. Some tracking tools can even
show where the majority of their songs are being downloaded, as well as
from what cities. This gives the artist a chance to possibly tour that
area and promote their music live, and even sell merchandise. Newer
bands that just don't have the money to pay for a tour realize that the
internet is the best vehicle they have to get their music heard locally
as well as around the world.

Truly, [music downloads](http://www.legalsoundz.com)have changed the way
music is heard, so much that it is creating a stir to the 'elephant in
the room' major record companies.. Many of the major labels are fighting
the digital age because the old way of doing things allowed them more
control over an artist.. Today's up and coming artists have the ability
to do what they want, on their own terms. Self-produced free agents of
music are revolutionizing the way you hear about a new artist. Because
the major labels are losing the creative control in the industry, the
artists have more freedom to really express their talents without being
'too risky' for the labels. As a result, it's possible that in the years
to come, we will get better, true music, and there may even be a battle
of the Internet bands with all of the new technologies that sites such
as JamBuzzer are developing.
