# Reloop Beatmix 4

\*\* This page is currently a placeholder for a work-in-progress mapping
\*\*

[[/media/reloop-beatmix-4.jpg|]]

  - [Manufacturer's product
    page](http://www.reloop.com/reloop-beatmix-4)
  - [Forum thread : mapping to download, users feedback, installation
    notes](http://www.mixxx.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=8428)

The **Reloop Beatmix 4** is a performance-oriented 4-channel pad
controller with integrated soundcard. **Beatmix 4** offers an
ergonomically designed 4-channel mixer layout, optimized for the club
allowing you to work intuitively: Dedicated equalizer and gain dials,
high-quality line-faders, an extremely smooth-running crossfader, 16
multi-colour drum pads, as well as two extensive FX units are the
foundation for your creativity.

# Mixxx mapping description

## Transport Section

[[/media/reloop-beatmix4_transport-section.png|reloop-beatmix4\_transport-section.png]]

**PLAY/PAUSE** Press to launch and pause your track.

**SHIFT + PLAY/PAUSE** This reverses the direction of the track playing.

**CUE** Cue sets a temporary CUE point. It is set by pausing the track
and pressing the CUE button. Whilst the track is playing, press CUE to
return to that point, where it will pause.

**SHIFT+ CUE** Takes you back to the start of your track.

**CUP** Pressing CUP takes you directly to your CUE point, starting
playback instantly. If no CUE point is set, it will jump to the
beginning of the track.

**SHIFT + CUP** Changes the pitch range, cycling through 8%, 12% and 16%

**SYNC** Sync automatically matches a track to the BPM of the other deck
(beatsync).

**SHIFT + SYNC** Turn on master sync (sync\_enabled)

## Pad Section

[[/media/reloop-beatmix_pad-section.png|reloop-beatmix\_pad-section.png]]

### Mode A

**Top Row 4 Pads - CUE Points** Press an unlit pad to set a new CUE
point. If it is already set, jump to this CUE point.

**Top Row 4 Pads - SHIFT + DRUM PAD** Deletes CUE points.

**Lower Row 4 Pads - LOOP** Press the Drum Pad to activate a loop. Loop
length (in beats) is respectively 1, 2, 4 and 8 beats.

**Lower Row 4 Pads + SHIFT - LOOP ADJUST** Drum Pad 1 - Sets a loop
length. Push to define loop start, release to define loop end. Drum Pad
2 - Shortens (half) the LOOP. Drum Pad 3 - Lengthens (double) the LOOP.
Drum Pad 4 - Replays the LOOP.

### Mode B

**Top Row 4 Pads - SAMPLER PLAY** Pressing drum pads 1-4 launches a
sample.

**Lower Row 4 Pads - SAMPLER STOP** Pressing drum pads 5-8 stops the
sample.

**Top Row 4 Pads + SHIFT - CYCLE** Pressing 1 - 4 cycles through sampler
play types.

**Lower Row 4 Pads + SHIFT - EJECT** Pressing drum pads 5-8 ejects the
sample.

### Split mode

Split mode is activated by pressing mode A and mode B buttons
simultaneously. The two leds A and B are lit together. In this mode, to
top row is configured in mode A, and the bottom row if configured as the
top row of mode B.
