\======= Standard effects mapping ====== This page describes how to use
the standard Mixxx mapping for effects sections on controllers with the
typical layout of 4 knobs (or 3 knobs + 1 encoder) and 4 buttons for
effects. It allows you to switch between controlling all 3 effects of a
chain or controlling each parameter of one effect.

By default, 3 knobs are used for controlling effect metaknobs and the
buttons under them toggle each effect on/off. The 4th knob is used for
the mix (dry/wet) knob of the whole chain. On controllers designed for
Serato, the "Beats" encoder is used as the mix knob.

The button next to the mix knob is used for focusing effects. On
controllers designed for Serato, this button is labeled "Tap". While
holding this button pressed, the enable buttons for each effect switch
to choosing which effect is focused. When an effect is focused, the
knobs switch to controlling the first 3 parameters of that effect
instead of the metaknobs of each effect in the chain.

The LED of the focus button indicates whether any effect is focused.
When its LED is on, you can hold the button down to see which effect is
focused without having to look at the computer screen. To unfocus the
effect, you can short press the focus button. The focused effect is
remembered, so when you short press the focus button again, the
previously focused effect will be refocused. Alternatively, if you want
to keep all the parameters showing on screen, you can press and hold the
focus button, then press the button of the focused effect to unfocus it.

When the focus button is pressed with shift, it toggles the EffectUnit
between controlling different EffectUnits in Mixxx. Typically this is
used to toggle between EffectUnits 1 & 3 or 2 & 4, like deck toggle
buttons.

To load different effects, hold shift and turn the knob for an effect.
