# UI/MIDI Controls and Names

Each control inside Mixxx is identified by a unique string. These
strings are used in the keyboard mappings, the MIDI mappings, and inside
Mixxx to gain access to the controls. The following is a list of
controls that can be used in any of the above contexts.

## List of Controls

The default range is 0.0 to 1.0, unless otherwise noted.

[Master](Master)

  - crossfader: min = -1.0, max = 1.0
  - samplerate

[ChannelN](ChannelN) (where N is a number 1 or 2)

  - play 
  - cue\_simple
  - volume
  - pregain
  - pfl
  - flanger
  - temporalShapeRate (?)
  - temporalPhaseRate (?)
  - wheel
  - scratch
  - beatsync
  - rate
  - rate\_perm\_down
  - rate\_perm\_up
  - rate\_temp\_down: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - rate\_temp\_up: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - back: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - fwd: off = 0.0, on = 1.0
  - filterLowKill
  - filterMidKill
  - filterHighKill
  - NextTrack
  - PrevTrack
  - playposition
  - LoadSelectedTrack - loads selected track from the
    playlist/tracktable.

[Playlist](Playlist)

  - SelectNextTrack - scrolls to the next track in the
    playlist/tracktable.
  - SelectPrevTrack - scrolls to the previous track in the
    playlist/tracktable.

Note: This is an incomplete list. There are a ton of these controls
mapped inside Mixxx.

The full list can be generated by running the following script in your
mixxx/src directory: \#\!/bin/sh IFS=' ' last\_control ====== for ck in
\`grep 'ConfigKey("' \*.cpp | grep -v "Channel2" | sed -e
's/.\*ConfigKey(//g' -e 's/, \*/,/g' | cut -d) -f1 | sed -e
's/[Channel1](Channel1)/[ChannelN](ChannelN) (where N is a number 1 or
2)/g' | sort -fu\`; do

``` 
 control=`echo $ck|cut -d" -f2`
 if [[|"$control" != "$last_control" ]]; then 
   echo
   echo $control
   last_control=$control
 fi
 key=`echo $ck|cut -d" -f4`
 echo "* ${key}"
```

done

## Using Controls Inside Mixxx (for developers)

If you want to access one of these controls inside Mixxx, you can do so
with something like this:

ControlObjectThreadMain\* controlRightPitch = new
ControlObjectThreadMain(ControlObject::getControl(ConfigKey("[Channel2](Channel2)",
"rate")));

That line will give you a ControlObject which allows you to read and
control the pitch of the right channel in Mixxx. For example, to
increase the pitch of the track in the right channel, one could do
something like this:

float fRightPitch = controlRightPitch-\>get();
controlRightPitch-\>slotSet(fRightPitch + 0.10);

This would increase the pitch of the right channel inside Mixxx, and the
GUI controls would automatically reflect this change. Access to
ControlObjects is also thread-safe when used this way.
