# DokuWiki

[[/media/wiki/korg_nanokontrol_controller_midi.jpg|]]

**nanoKONTROL Slim-Line USB Control Surface**

Low-profile, multi-function control surface

New track select and marker advance parameters

Supports numerous software titles including major DAW programs

Convenient, compact control surface, with easy setup for immediate use
In a body proportioned to fit perfectly in front of your laptop
computer, the nanoKONTROL provides eight channels of the controllers you
need to control your music software. The nanoKONTROL also features a
dedicated transport control section. The buttons have been carefully
selected to be useful with your software, ensuring simple and intuitive
control. Many software titles – including major DAW programs – are
supported, dramatically reducing the need to make complicated connection
settings.

Complete control for your DAW or software synthesizer A knob, fader, and
three switches are provided for each of the eight channels, respectively
assigned to pan, volume, and solo/mute/record. This arrangement is a
real convenience when recording automation for multiple channels.
There's also a marker button, making it easy to assign marks at
important points in your song for more efficient recording and song
production. When using a software synthesizer, you can assign parameters
to the desired controllers for easy control. For example you could use
the faders to control the ADSR of an envelope generator, and use the
knobs to control the filter's cutoff frequency and resonance, etc.

Korg Kontrol Editor software The nanoKONTROL works with the "Korg
Kontrol Editor" software – available free on the Korg website. Load it
into your computer, and use it to make detailed customized settings. For
example, the minimum and maximum values for each control change message
can be specified.

USB power for an uncluttered setup Just connect a single USB cable from
your computer to the nanoKONTROL, and you've got a quick and portable
music production system. Power and USB-MIDI data travels down the same
wire for a clean, efficient workspace

## Download

DokuWiki is available at <http://www.splitbrain.org/go/dokuwiki>

## Read More

All documentation and additional information besides the [syntax
description](syntax) is maintained in the DokuWiki at
[www.dokuwiki.org](https://www.dokuwiki.org/).

**About DokuWiki**

  - [A feature list](https://www.dokuwiki.org/features) :\!:
  - [Happy Users](https://www.dokuwiki.org/users)
  - [Who wrote about it](https://www.dokuwiki.org/press)
  - [What Bloggers think](https://www.dokuwiki.org/blogroll)
  - [Compare it with other wiki
    software](http://www.wikimatrix.org/show/DokuWiki)

**Installing DokuWiki**

  - [System Requirements](https://www.dokuwiki.org/requirements)
  - [Download DokuWiki](http://www.splitbrain.org/go/dokuwiki) :\!:
  - [Change Log](https://www.dokuwiki.org/changes)
  - [How to install or upgrade](https://www.dokuwiki.org/Install) :\!:
  - [Configuration](https://www.dokuwiki.org/config)

**Using DokuWiki**

  - [Wiki Syntax](https://www.dokuwiki.org/syntax)
  - [The manual](https://www.dokuwiki.org/manual) :\!:
  - [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](https://www.dokuwiki.org/FAQ)
  - [Glossary](https://www.dokuwiki.org/glossary)
  - [Search for DokuWiki help and
    documentation](http://search.dokuwiki.org)

**Customizing DokuWiki**

  - [Tips and Tricks](https://www.dokuwiki.org/tips)
  - [How to create and use templates](https://www.dokuwiki.org/Template)
  - [Installing plugins](https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugins)
  - [Development Resources](https://www.dokuwiki.org/development)

**DokuWiki Feedback and Community**

  - [Subscribe to the newsletter](https://www.dokuwiki.org/newsletter)
    :\!:
  - [Join the mailing list](https://www.dokuwiki.org/mailinglist)
  - [Check out the user forum](http://forum.dokuwiki.org)
  - [Talk to other users in the IRC
    channel](https://www.dokuwiki.org/irc)
  - [Submit bugs and feature
    wishes](http://bugs.splitbrain.org/index.php?project=1)
  - [Share your experiences in the WikiMatrix
    forum](http://www.wikimatrix.org/forum/viewforum.php?id=10)
  - [Some humble thanks](https://www.dokuwiki.org/thanks)

## Copyright

2004-2010 (c) Andreas Gohr <andi@splitbrain.org>\[1\] and the DokuWiki
Community

The DokuWiki engine is licensed under [GNU General Public
License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) Version 2. If you use
DokuWiki in your company, consider
[donating](https://www.dokuwiki.org/donate) a few bucks ;-).

Not sure what this means? See the [FAQ on the
Licenses](https://www.dokuwiki.org/faq:license).

1.  Please do not contact me for help and support -- use the
    [mailinglist](https://www.dokuwiki.org/mailinglist) or
    [forum](http://forum.dokuwiki.org) instead
